we have a really deep cultural
assumption
in the modern english-speaking western
world
that education is not a commodity
is not a consumer product and should
not be questioned in terms of
its outcomes when people talk about the
quality of education
you'd think they were talking about a
profound philosophical
religious intangible concept
they never talk about the quality of
education
the same way they talk about the quality
of a car
or the same way they talk about the
quality of
plastic surgery such as a nose job
or a boob job in plain english i did not
like the way that they looked
the implants were you could see the line
the full circle of the implant they were
just very round
looking on my chest and very slowly i
began to just
dislike the way i was looking in tops
and things like that i kind of realized
like oh
these really don't look natural at all
so fast forward a little bit and things
just started to get worse and worse with
the way that they were looking
and the way that they were feeling i
kind of noticed they were feeling
tighter on my chest
so then i started doing a little bit of
research and i come to find
that i did not know this that a capsule
is created in your body around the
implant to sort of protect your body
from the implant because it is a foreign
object
silicone that is placed inside of your
body so the body's natural instinct is
to form this
scar tissue around it that they call a
capsule if you are considering
getting a particular procedure in
plastic surgery
one of the first things you're going to
look up
it's not customer satisfaction in some
nebulous sense
not customer satisfaction in terms of
like five days after
people had the surgery you interview
them and say how did it go
no after somebody got a bloop job
what percentage of them had to get
another surgery
to correct it one year later two years
later five years later 10 years later
what percentage of them regretted it
five years later 10 years later what
were the measurable
outcomes within the first six months the
silicone begins to break down into your
body
i also learned that you have to replace
them vicariously through your life so
that would be several surgeries in my
lifetime and i just knew in my heart
i wanted them out and even if even if
only
10 percent of people had really negative
outcomes
right where they regretted they had the
operation at all or maybe they had to
have two or three other surgeries to
correct something wrong
if it's only ten percent you would still
sit there and take that
very seriously is this the right
decision for me
because i could be in that 10
the failure rate on university education
is much much higher
than 10 the failure rate in language
education i.e people who pay to learn a
language and never learn it
never get the desired outcomes is much
much higher
than 10 and the cost the cost in money
and the cost in time
to learn a language is much
much higher than the cost of plastic
surgery
to get a nose job or a boob job for the
vast majority of people
who pay to get those procedures if you
buy a car
that particular model of car how many of
them
are still on the road are still working
five years later
how many of them have had a serious
problem and had to be recalled
to the factory how many of them just
plain broke down and had to get fixed up
at a garage
how many of them had to have expensive
components replaced
within five years culturally we have a
problem we have an encumbrance
because we refuse to think of education
as a consumer product now i'm not going
to end this video to just leave you
wondering
what's the solution to the riddle and no
i'm going to destroy the mystery
right here and now and it's twofold one
outcome evaluation what none of these
people are doing
is evaluating outcomes right
if we really wanted to know which method
was more effective
efficient which had better outcomes we'd
have to measure the input
and the output we'd have to actually
keep track of
how many students from laoshu's program
achieved what level and how much time
with how much effort with how much money
let's contrast this to the world of diet
and exercise
it may seem like there are very
fundamental differences
between what different diet gurus tell
you to do in the first
six months or different gym coaches tell
you to do in the first six months but
you know what
with the exception of a few insane
crackpots
all of them are based on counting the
number of calories
counting the number of grams of protein
counting the number of
grams of fat lifting weight
progressively heavier weights
there are broad outlines here that are
very fundamentally similar
with different coaches for health and
weight loss we could definitely draw out
the
scientific outlines of what almost
all diet and exercise advice has in
common
and what we find with language learning
is that there is no such
common ground they're fundamentally and
profoundly different from one another
and the world of university teaching the
methods used there in the classroom
is profoundly different again so
something's wrong here
i have sat in classrooms face-to-face
with the university dean
the head of the department and the head
language teacher
pushing universities on that issue why
is it that you're not evaluating
how much chinese these students actually
learn
when they spend like twenty thousand
dollars in four years
to learn chinese from you and the
outcomes
are they can barely put a sentence
together
unless you know the professor is
cheating because in that same meeting
where i met with the professor and the
head of the department stuff they were
like
oh but this girl mimi can speak chinese
so well that's because mimi's mom
is chinese she grew up speaking chinese
in her living room and singing chinese
karaoke it doesn't count you can't use
students who came into the program
already you know halfway fluent or
growing up with the language of their
family
but they they really did reach that kind
of thing which is like look you know
i notice you guys are not measuring
outcomes you're not measuring the actual
degree of ability that you achieve by
using
terrible methods like having 40 students
sit in a classroom
listen to an audio cd that the professor
presses play on
and then doing a multiple multiple
choice checklist
style test in class every day gee
remarkably after four years and twenty
thousand dollars
it seems like those students speak way
less chinese than i managed to learn in
seven months living in kunming china
using really intensive methods that i'm
not going to now describe by contrast
outcome evaluation measuring
the outcomes would be crucial to backing
up the claim that laoshu's method is
more effective than luca's method
or that luca's method is more effective
than university methods or that one
university's methods are more effective
than another
so on and so forth in canada
we had a series of high court decisions
between 2012 and 2017
that established for the first time that
the relationship between
student and university is indeed
the relationship between a consumer
and a service provider
this hasn't happened in the united
states of america yet the most recent
court decision united states comes out
of michigan it's very interesting case
and if you read it
i think it's quite misleading in the way
it has been interpreted and applied but
the united states has yet to take the
step of saying clearly
students are consumers when they pay for
a service
they can sue their professors and they
can sue the university
in the same way that you if you get
surgery
can sue the doctor and can sue the
hospital
for malpractice or just because the
outcomes were not what was advertised
were not what was promised failing to
deliver
the outcomes that were advertised that
were promised
that's a very clear concept i know we
have
a reluctance especially if you're on the
left wing
we have a reluctance to look at
education with the cold calculating
i of a consumer and say i am paying
for certain outcomes and i need you to
prove to me
that you can deliver in the world of
diet and health advice
it's one thing to boast that you have
satisfied customers
you may do those interviews the same day
people sign up for the service
or the day the seminar ends it's one
thing to boast you have ten thousand
satisfied customers and it's another
thing to prove
here was their body weight before they
signed up for the program
here was their body weight at the end of
the camp they went to
to lose weight and then here was their
body weight six months later
one year later two years later five
years later
i think it's quite possible for everyone
in the audience to imagine
there may be some weight loss programs
that people
really enjoy attending they really enjoy
the lectures they really enjoy going to
say a two-day camp or a two-week camp
some kind of intensive fitness section
and they give all kinds of
testimonies here on youtube or on the
internet saying they had a great time
they're so happy they paid for this
package
but they don't actually lose much
weight they don't actually get the
results and then two years later or five
years later
they've gained back the little bit of
weight they lost or maybe they've
they've gained even more
and you can then imagine a very
different
health and weight loss program and maybe
when you interview people
the day after they finish they're
miserable they hate it they say this was
awful
maybe they even say they regret signing
up for it it was horrible to endure
but they got the results they lost
weight
and maybe two years later and five years
later
a very large percentage of them have
actually learned the skills
have gained the discipline to keep that
weight off
to have positive outcomes not just in
the short term
but forever and then you get to ask
yourself if you want to lose weight
maybe you've got a heart condition or
high blood pressure
which path are you going to choose
the one that's maybe easy and
entertaining
and uplifting or the one
that gets results so long as
people here on youtube
or just playing this popularity game
the type of language learning advice
that you are going to see that's going
to get millions of views that's going to
be popular
that's going to be influential is always
going to be
the most entertaining and the least
effective it is only
only when we bring outcome evaluation
into the picture when we start asking
and answering
what level of language ability did
people have before they entered this
program
what level did they have at the end and
what level of
real ability do they have two years
later and five years later
it's then and only then
that the [ __ ] will stop my sling is
editorial explicit material
briefcase show live and stereo flow fill
me